README.md, before:

# Batch-Data-Processing-for-Rental-Marketplace-Analytics

This project is an end-to-end data pipeline for rental marketplace which enables analytical reporting on renting listing and user interactions. The platform stores application data in an AWS Aurora MySQL database, and the goal of this pipeline is to extract these data, transform them to generate key business metrics and load them to a data warehouse (Amazon Redshift) for business intelligence and reporting.

# Setup and Troubleshooting Guide
## Rental Marketplace Analytics Pipeline

## Table of Contents
1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
2. [Environment Setup](#environment-setup)
3. [AWS Configuration](#aws-configuration)
4. [Database Setup](#database-setup)
5. [Pipeline Components](#pipeline-components)
6. [Common Issues and Solutions](#common-issues-and-solutions)

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+
- AWS Account with appropriate permissions
- MySQL database instance
- AWS Redshift cluster
- AWS Glue service access
- AWS Step Functions access

## Environment Setup

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd Batch-Data-Processing-for-Rental-Marketplace-Analytics
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Create `.env` file with required credentials:
```env
HOST=<mysql-host>
USER=<mysql-username>
PASSWORD=<mysql-password>
DATABASE=<database-name>
DB_PORT=3306
```

## AWS Configuration

### Step Functions Setup
1. Create AWS Step Functions state machine using `code/glue scripts/step_functions_code.json`
2. Ensure IAM roles have permissions for:
   - AWS Glue job execution
   - S3 read/write access
   - Redshift data API access

### Glue Jobs Configuration
1. Create the following Glue jobs:
   - `rds_to_s3_extraction`
   - `Curated_to_s3`
   - `Loading data to redshift`

2. Required job parameters:
   - For `rds_to_s3_extraction`:
     ```
     RDS_HOST
     RDS_PORT
     RDS_DB_NAME
     RDS_USERNAME
     RDS_PASSWORD
     S3_OUTPUT_BUCKET
     TABLES_TO_EXTRACT
     ```
   - For `Curated_to_s3`:
     ```
     OUTPUT_BUCKET
     DATABASE_NAME
     ```
   - For `Loading data to redshift`:
     ```
     REDSHIFT_CONNECTION
     DATABASE
     DATABASE_USER
     IAM_ROLE_ARN
     S3_RAW_PATH
     S3_CURATED_PATH
     S3_PRESENTATION_PATH
     ```

## Database Setup

### MySQL Setup
1. Execute ingestion scripts in order:
```bash
python code/ingestion_scripts/bookings.py
python code/ingestion_scripts/user_viewing.py
```

### Redshift Setup
1. Create required schemas:
   - raw_layer
   - curated_layer
   - presentation_layer

2. Execute schema creation scripts from `code/sql/curated_layer schema and tables.txt`

## Pipeline Components

### Data Flow
1. MySQL → S3 (raw data)
2. S3 → Glue Catalog (via crawler)
3. Glue Catalog → S3 (curated data)
4. S3 → Redshift (final destination)

### Monitoring Points
- Step Functions execution console
- Glue job runs
- Redshift query history
- S3 bucket contents

## Common Issues and Solutions

### Extraction Job Failures
**Issue**: `rds_to_s3_extraction` job fails
**Solutions**:
- Verify MySQL connectivity
- Check RDS credentials
- Ensure S3 bucket permissions
- Validate table names in `TABLES_TO_EXTRACT`

### Crawler Issues
**Issue**: Glue crawler fails or hangs
**Solutions**:
- Verify S3 path exists
- Check IAM roles
- Confirm S3 bucket permissions
- Wait for retry (configured for 30 attempts)

### Curated Layer Processing
**Issue**: `Curated_to_s3` job fails
**Solutions**:
- Check Glue catalog tables exist
- Verify data formats
- Monitor memory usage
- Check for schema mismatches

### Redshift Loading
**Issue**: `Loading data to redshift` job fails
**Solutions**:
- Verify Redshift connection
- Check IAM role permissions
- Validate table schemas
- Monitor COPY command errors in SVL_QLOG

### General Troubleshooting Steps
1. Check CloudWatch logs for detailed error messages
2. Verify IAM roles and permissions
3. Monitor resource usage
4. Check network connectivity
5. Validate data formats and schemas

### Support and Maintenance
For additional support:
1. Review CloudWatch logs
2. Check Step Functions execution history
3. Monitor Glue job metrics
4. Review Redshift STL_LOAD_ERRORS table

Commit message:

Update README to clarify Glue jobs and ingestion script execution steps

README.md, after:

# Batch-Data-Processing-for-Rental-Marketplace-Analytics

This project is an end-to-end data pipeline for rental marketplace which enables analytical reporting on renting listing and user interactions. The platform stores application data in an AWS Aurora MySQL database, and the goal of this pipeline is to extract these data, transform them to generate key business metrics and load them to a data warehouse (Amazon Redshift) for business intelligence and reporting.

# Setup and Troubleshooting Guide
## Rental Marketplace Analytics Pipeline

## Table of Contents
1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
2. [Environment Setup](#environment-setup)
3. [AWS Configuration](#aws-configuration)
4. [Database Setup](#database-setup)
5. [Pipeline Components](#pipeline-components)
6. [Common Issues and Solutions](#common-issues-and-solutions)

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+
- AWS Account with appropriate permissions
- MySQL database instance
- AWS Redshift cluster
- AWS Glue service access
- AWS Step Functions access

## Environment Setup

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd Batch-Data-Processing-for-Rental-Marketplace-Analytics
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Create `.env` file with required credentials:
```env
HOST=<mysql-host>
USER=<mysql-username>
PASSWORD=<mysql-password>
DATABASE=<database-name>
DB_PORT=3306
```

## AWS Configuration

### Step Functions Setup
1. Create AWS Step Functions state machine using `code/glue scripts/step_functions_code.json`
2. Ensure IAM roles have permissions for:
   - AWS Glue job execution
   - S3 read/write access
   - Redshift data API access

### Glue Jobs Configuration
1. Create the following Glue jobs with the scripts provided in the `code/glue scripts` folder:
   - `rds_to_s3_extraction`
   - `Curated_to_s3`
   - `Loading data to redshift`

2. Required job parameters:
   - For `rds_to_s3_extraction`:
     ```
     RDS_HOST
     RDS_PORT
     RDS_DB_NAME
     RDS_USERNAME
     RDS_PASSWORD
     S3_OUTPUT_BUCKET
     TABLES_TO_EXTRACT
     ```
   - For `Curated_to_s3`:
     ```
     OUTPUT_BUCKET
     DATABASE_NAME
     ```
   - For `Loading data to redshift`:
     ```
     REDSHIFT_CONNECTION
     DATABASE
     DATABASE_USER
     IAM_ROLE_ARN
     S3_RAW_PATH
     S3_CURATED_PATH
     S3_PRESENTATION_PATH
     ```

## Database Setup

### MySQL Setup
1. Execute ingestion scripts in order:
```bash
python code/ingestion_scripts/apartments.py
python code/ingestion_scripts/apartments_attributes.py
python code/ingestion_scripts/bookings.py
python code/ingestion_scripts/user_viewing.py
```

### Redshift Setup
1. Create required schemas:
   - raw_layer
   - curated_layer
   - presentation_layer

2. Execute schema and table creation scripts from `code/sql/`

## Pipeline Components

### Data Flow
1. MySQL → S3 (raw data)
2. S3 → Glue Catalog (via crawler)
3. Glue Catalog → S3 (curated data)
4. S3 → Redshift (final destination)

### Monitoring Points
- Step Functions execution console
- Glue job runs
- Redshift query history
- S3 bucket contents

## Common Issues and Solutions

### Extraction Job Failures
**Issue**: `rds_to_s3_extraction` job fails
**Solutions**:
- Verify MySQL connectivity
- Check RDS credentials
- Ensure S3 bucket permissions
- Validate table names in `TABLES_TO_EXTRACT`

### Crawler Issues
**Issue**: Glue crawler fails or hangs
**Solutions**:
- Verify S3 path exists
- Check IAM roles
- Confirm S3 bucket permissions
- Wait for retry (configured for 30 attempts)

### Curated Layer Processing
**Issue**: `Curated_to_s3` job fails
**Solutions**:
- Check Glue catalog tables exist
- Verify data formats
- Monitor memory usage
- Check for schema mismatches

### Redshift Loading
**Issue**: `Loading data to redshift` job fails
**Solutions**:
- Verify Redshift connection
- Check IAM role permissions
- Validate table schemas
- Monitor COPY command errors in SVL_QLOG

### General Troubleshooting Steps
1. Check CloudWatch logs for detailed error messages
2. Verify IAM roles and permissions
3. Monitor resource usage
4. Check network connectivity
5. Validate data formats and schemas

### Support and Maintenance
For additional support:
1. Review CloudWatch logs
2. Check Step Functions execution history
3. Monitor Glue job metrics
4. Review Redshift STL_LOAD_ERRORS table
